Hello, friend, this is the thirty-fourth edition of my weekly friendship newsletter! :)
I hope you had a nice weekend and had a good start to Monday!
Tell me about your week sometime!
The animals of the week are the banana spider, the zebra, and in first place, the mantis shrimp!
Mantis shrimps are fascinating! They belong to the higher crustaceans and live on the bottom of tropical waters and oceans. They are easily recognizable by their neon-colored scales and large stalked eyes, which they can move independently of each other. By the way, their eyes can see way more colors than humans, even infrared and ultraviolet! In addition, they have a body structure similar to that of a lobster, but their front body is upright and they have large claws. Mantis shrimps can grow up to 30cm long and weigh 100g, and live up to 9 years. They feed on other crustaceans and fish, which they catch in various ways: some species are "spearers", using their claws to spear fish and mollusks and then consume them. Even more exciting are the "smashers": they can snap their claws forward with a speed of over 25m/s, with the claws moving at up to 8000 times the acceleration of earth's gravity! A human blink takes 40 times as long. In the process, the water around the claws heats up so much that a gas explosion occurs and even flashes of light can occur!
The claws, protected by 3 layers of protective substances, reach the speed of a bullet and can completely destroy crustacean and mollusk shells. The heated water additionally releases a pressure wave on the victim, which can kill the prey even if the claws miss. For comparison: If a human were to throw a basketball with only 10% of this speed, it would fly into space. In zoos, mantis shrimps have even broken aquarium glass and human fingers. In general, they are very aggressive, not only when hunting but also when defending their territories, although they rarely fight each other and instead gesticulate wildly with their feelers. Like angry neighbors! xD Of all the animals of the week, the mantis shrimp has fascinated me the most so far, what do you think?
Suggest a new animal for this week too! Furthermore, I hope you are doing well and wish you a nice week! Drink enough and see you next Monday at the latest!