Hello, friend, this is the fortieth edition of my weekly friendship newsletter! Happy New Year!
I hope you had an enjoyable weekend and a good start to Monday and 2025!
Tell me about your week sometime!
The animals of the week are the mouflon, the piranha, and in first place, the sea otter!
Sea otters are among the largest of all otter species. Yet at up to 1.50m long and 40kg in weight, they are still one of the smallest aquatic mammals. They have brown fur with a lighter head color, closable nostrils and ears, webbed hind feet, and a beaver-like tail. Sea otters can live up to 20 years and are found in coastal regions of the North Pacific, in the west from Japan via Siberia to California in the east. There they live near protective shores and in the immediate vicinity of kelp forests, where they hunt for most of their food. Sea otters feed mainly on sea urchins but also eat mussels, snails, and sometimes fish. They can also drink salt water! Sea otters live in so-called "rafts" of up to 100 animals, but only males with males and females with females together. When they sleep, they often hold hands to stay together! Their fur is the densest of all animals, with up to 400,000 hairs per square centimeter! That's as much as a normal human has on their entire head. Their dense fur stores air bubbles for insulation and keeps the skin dry, which is also a special feature: it is very wrinkled; sea otters use it to form small pockets (similar to marsupials) in which they store prey during their dives.
In addition, each sea otter has its own stone! They use it as a tool to open mussels, but also like to play with it. They put it on their stomach and hit hard-to-open food on it to open it. Sea otters have also been observed using kelp as a rope to hold prey, but sometimes also themselves, to avoid being washed away while sleeping if they don't have anyone to hold hands with. In the past, sea otters were almost completely exterminated, but their population has since recovered to several hundred thousand animals. They are a keystone species, meaning that their species has a particularly important influence on the local ecosystem. In the wild, sea otters have to watch out for orcas, white sharks, and sea eagles. They spend most of their time grooming their fur, hunt several times a day, and sleep at night; they do most of their activities while floating on their backs. I find them adorable :]
Feel free to suggest a new animal for this week too!
Furthermore, I hope you are doing well and wish you a wonderful week! Drink plenty and see you next Monday!